---
layout: post
title: Ethics of source code sharing
keywords: source code open sharing paper
category: Web
---
Ever since the advent of open source softwares, there have been lot of discussions about the ethics of code sharing in the open source community. For something so important and useful, one has to follow some guidelines or rules to make it compatible with a standard or an ethical approach.

If ethics are not properly followed code sharing will become more like a hit and run case, where a person works really hard on something and then loses all of gaining no fame or appreciation at all because somebody took his idea, his code and made changes to it to make be proclaimed as a genius.

When somebody is sharing his code to the world, it is important that his name is kept alive in all modifications of his work; the best example is that of Linux operating system. Linux was built by *Linus Trovalds* and now it enjoys the liberty of being the core of many distributions all around the world. It is an ethical and correct way that these distributions clearly state that they are based on Linux originally created by Linus Trovalds.

Now that open source movement has evolved and accepted almost all over the world. It should always be kept ethical to produce and consume *FOSS*(free and open source software). We shall see some of the ethics in detail:

<h3>Supporting the cause</h3>
When using <strong>FOSS</strong>, the user should be loyal to the people behind the software. He should promote their work, if he is a developer then support it as well. And if he sees some room for improvement he should let the developers know in a cool manner rather than thrashing them for not fixing a bug. One has to remember that people have built this software for the world to use free of charge and not for profit, help them make it better.

<h3>Share the love and the code</h3>
If software has been built on existing code, then it should remain open source and its code should be available to other developers as well.

Microsoft clearly disobeyed this principle when they developed the popular Xbox game <strong>Gears of War </strong>on an open source Gaming Engine called the <strong>Unreal Engine</strong>. It was non-ethical to use an open source software to create such a great game and then not sharing its code. In my opinion if that game had been open source, number of mods and plugins that would’ve enhanced the overall gaming experience would now be available by the geeky open source community.

<h3>Give credit to the original developer when modifying</h3>
A popular open source license type known as <strong>GNU Public License(GPL)</strong> emphasizes on one thing <em>“modifications to this code are not allowed without credit to the original developer”</em>. This line is extremely important and not following it is declared extremely unethical. Not giving credit to the original developer or designer means you are ripping off his work and not even taking the liberty to thank him just once.

<h3>Using the proper method to share Code</h3>
There exist a number of methods to share source code in the proper view through version controlling, a few of which are:
<ul>
	<li><em>SVN</em></li>
	<li><em>CVS</em></li>
	<li><em>Bazaar</em></li>
	<li><em>Git</em></li>
	<li><em>Mercurial</em></li>
	<li><em>SVK</em></li>
	<li><em>Monotone</em></li>
</ul>
Each of these softwares provide a unique way to share the code to a repository from where other uses can obtain it. They work in such a way that code is always kept up to date and minute of changes can be shared with the world with a click of a button.

<h3>Final Word</h3>
If you don’t steal a car, a tv, a mobile phone or a laptop computer then how can you steal somebody’s source code.  Yes, source code copying without the proper guidelines is stealing and is an offense punishable as a crime in the IT industry.

So if you are a supporter of FOSS and freedom of expression, be ethical. 

