---
layout: post
title: Of shattered dreams and bitter reality
keywords: pakistan independence day
category: Thoughts
---
Ever seen an eagle flying real high with his mighty wings, stalking prey, defying gravity of all worries? And how one wishes to be able to do that. Such are the dreams of people. Some get what they want, some don't. In real everyone achieves what he wants to he follows the path to his destiny and learns that what he wants is not always the best. Whatever is the right thing to do and is morally correct, is the best thing in life. Recall how many right things have you done? Each and every one of them is your life's best moment. I know the topic of this post sounds very negative and depressingJ. When you start trying hard enough to get something out of your life you gain experience and that experience can take you places, it will always come in handy and when it does the thing you were trying hard to get does not matter anymore. You obtain your inner peace. In today's world words like honor and glory sound like ancient history but if you try to make them your motive you see the picture of what life is all about. This has been a thought which I have been sharing with almost everyone in my offline life and now I have shared it on my blog for the world to see. A friend once quoted this in a letter to me:


<em>Both soon and late you shall see changes, great vast horrors, vengeance cruel the signs portend
</em>

<em>        While moon, on whom her angel-guide shall wait, in highest heaven her angels shall subtend.
</em>

<em>                                        <strong>Nostradamus</strong></em>