---
layout: post
title: Customer Service that makes you Smile
category: Thoughts
description: My Encounter with Wordpress Customer Service.
class: post39
---
Its been an year since i Switched from Wordpress to jekyll. I registered this domain name while I was using wordpress by using the wordpress upgrades and paid $10 for it. After switching to jekyll I pointed the aliirz.com to name servers at Linode. Two days ago I got an email from Wordpress Customer services that my domain registration is about to expire and I need renew it. As soon as I saw the email I signed into my wordpress dashboard to make the payment. To my surprise I got the following error message when I tried to make the payment:

<div class="alert-box error">
	This credit card was issued from an unsupported country.
</div>


Now this make me a little angry and disappointed. So I emailed back the customer service:

<blockquote>
Hello

I am trying to upgrade my domain manually and I am getting the following 
error:

This credit card was issued from an unsupported country.

This is quite disappointing as I used the same card to purchase and map 
my domain on WordPress an year ago. Can you please help?

Regards
</blockquote>

I was expecting a reply that would say something like "I am sorry we no longer accept credit cards from your country as per our new policy. Happy Wordpressing". If it had been this kind a reply I would've gone all nuclear on wordpress but to my surprise instead this is that they replied back with today:

<blockquote>
Hi Ali,

Sorry for the delay in getting back to you!

This is known issue, our credit card processor recently changed the counties that they accept cards from.  We are currently investigation alternatives, but in the mean time I have added a full year to the domain registration and domain mapping for you.

If there is anything else I can help with just let me know.


Ray
WordPress.com | Automattic
</blockquote>

Folks! Thats the kind of customer service that makes you smile. I love you wordpress! :)
