---
layout: post
title: GBG Peshawar
keywords: GBG Peshawar Maria Umar Saad Hamid digital league
description: Google Business Group comes to KPK.
category: Events
class: post49
---
So I attended an event organized by GBG Islamabad and The Digital League. It was the first ever event to be organized for women enterpreneurs here.

Thanks to "Maria Umar":https://twitter.com/MariaUmar and Premier Formica Industries. The event got kicked off by a presentation on Google Adwords by Saad Hameed. He explained using Adwords to your advantage for higher rate of conversions. Saad also gave examples of creating good Ads and how to specifically target your Ads towards select users.

The second session was about How to stay safe online. The presentation was given by "Usama Khilji":https://twitter.com/UsamaKhilji who explained it all pretty well to changes passwords periodocially


Yes, I know this all sounds boring. Ha! I got you all didn't I? I was trying to doze you all to sleep. Well actually the event was pretty nice. It was really cool to see some enterepreneurs from KP show up. I met Haris N. another celebrity in the Pakistani tech. scene the founder of "Android Pakistan":http://www.androidpakistan.com . It was a wonderful experience meeting all these amazing people many of whom are the next generation of enterpreneurs. Now I feel much more confident following the path I have chosen(More on that in another post). The tech. industry of Pakistan is setting its eyes upon KP and it means good things are about to happen. *Fingers Crossed!*